In August of 2017, a coalition of fascist and white supremacist groups came to Charlottesville, Virginia. They were rallying in support of keeping a statue of Robert E. Lee, a Confederate general.*You probably know about this rally, because it was all over the news. But this game isn’t about the Unite the Right rally. It’s about what came before.
My name is Elizabeth. Here’s something you should know. I was born in Richmond, Virginia. As a child, I learned a certain version of Virginia’s history.*Virginia was the beginning of the United States, my textbooks said. Charlottesville was the home of the great Thomas Jefferson, Founding Father and founder of the University of Virginia.
Children of all backgrounds were force-fed these narratives. But because I am white, I did not have to critically confront them until I went to study at UVA. That was when I started to learn how much had been left out of the stories I knew.
In 2017, when the rally happened, some people seemed shocked that it happened in Charlottesville. But activists and historians said, “Of course the rally happened here. Why do you think the statue was here in the first place?”
I thought about what they said. I tried to research, to listen, to question. And in the end, I made this game: a compilation of interviews, tours, and documents that help unearth the history that got left out along the way.
But I want to stress that these narratives are not conclusive. I’ve done my best, but this this game is a fraction of the entire history of Charlottesville. Think of it as a random sample of seashells plucked from the beach. Much has been left out.
I struggled to give this game a goal. How could I design a goal that would treat each piece of history with respect? But games are supposed to have goals, so I will give you one.
Imagine a book written on expensive parchment. Someone wrote a story on the parchment, but a hundred years later, someone else tried to scrape off that writing and write something else. That is a palimpsest: one story buried beneath another.
Now imagine that you are a historian, making a time capsule to teach the next generation what happened before the 2017 rally. But you can only pick ten things to put into this time capsule, so what do you choose?*In other words, it’s your job to read the palimpsest.
